All right, let's talk about CRUD.
CRUD means create, read, update, and delete.
And most, I would say almost everything in the world
of programming can be simplified into CRUD.
Maybe put one on the end as well, CRUDS,
which would be for subscribe,
but if you've got a database and you're saving information,
you're either creating it, you're either reading it,
you're updating it, you're deleting it,
or you're subscribing to all of the above.
And we are going to be talking about,
right now is the second one.
We created them, then we're gonna read them,
a single product.
We click on one of the products, 404,
so we're gonna fix that right now.
And then we're going to focus in
on the updating and deleting of the items.
So let's get on into that.
The thing about these URLs here
is that it's /product/ the actual product ID.
And if you remember, if you've taken this course,
the last time we did it, last time,
what we did is we did product ID is equal to that.
And that's because Next.js used to not have
like file base routing, but now it does.
So we're able to put things
like the product ID right into the URL,
or you could go even one step further
and you could generate a slug for the product,
like nice-chair.
When somebody, when you create the product,
you create a slug and you could use that to look it up.
So whatever this is,
we're going to use that to look it up in the database.
So the way that we do that
is we're gonna go into our pages here,
and we're gonna create a folder called product.
So we're gonna go into our pages directory,
and we're gonna make a new file.
And I'm gonna show you how to make a folder
and a file at once in VS Code.
We can say product/,
and then the name of the file we're gonna create
is gonna be square brackets, id.js.
So there's a couple of things going on here.
So it made the folder called product,
and then we made a file called id.js inside of there.
Now, inside of here, this is going to match,
this syntax here with the square brackets,
that is specific to Next.js,
and what it will do is it is saying,
use this template for anything that has,
that matches this sort of layout.
So /product/ anything,
and then what we're gonna do
is it's going to give us a query param called id,
which we can then use to look up the item in our database.
So if we go in here and we say, export default function,
we'll call it SingleProduct, and then let's just return a p,
says, "Hey, I'm a single product."
Now, if we refresh this page, we say,
"Hey, I'm a single product,"
then if we would go into our rack dev tools
and go to components, we should see, here we go,
here's our single product component.
And you see that the query,
we now have the ID being supplied to us, why?
Because we name the file square bracket id.js.
And then what that does is match anything
of this URL product/ whatever.
And then give me that whatever
in a query param and we have access to it,
and you could nest those very much deeper.
If you go to syntax.fm, and you go to one of our episodes,
you'll see that the URL is /show/ show number,
forward slash slug of the actual show.
And if you were to inspect that,
you would see that there is a query param
both for the show number as well as for the slug of the URL.
And if you look at the syntax,
the syntax is built on Next.js as well.
If you look at the source code,
it's online, it's at GitHub, you can check it out.G
You'll see, oh, let me show you,
GitHub, Wes Bos, syntax, and we'll go into pages.
And then you look at this, we have a folder called show,
which is /show, and you go into there.
And then we have a folder called number.
And then we have a file called slug.js.
And it gives us both the show number
and the slug via the query params.
So we can take that in here
and we can restructure that ID
because it comes in via props.
Remember, this is where props comes in,
but we want props.id.
So we'll the structure the prop id here,
and then we'll go ahead and use it
just by popping id into there.
And it's not showing up.
Oh, you know why?
It's not id, it's query.
And then here we say, query.id.
There we go.
Now the id is showing up,
and we can then hot potato that on to a query.
Let's do that now.
So if I, look, copy this ID,
and go to your API Explorer in the backend,
and let's just write a quick little query
to grab that single item here.
So, man, I got a lot of tabs here.
Well, I'll use this one.
We'll say query as a single, or not single price,
it's just product, where the id is equal to that.
So in here, we are now passing it a filter,
and you wanna ask where the id is equal to that.
There are no other options for the thing here.
So here, we're asking you for a product
where the id is equal to that.
We couldn't say find me a product
where the name is like Yeti.
And I'll show you how to do that in just a second
if that's what you want,
but in our case, just say id, what is that.
And then when that comes back,
we wanna grab the name, the price, the description.
You can go ahead and run that.
What if you wanted to find a product
where it had the name Yeti in it?
Well, if that was the case,
you'd have to look for all products.
And the difference between product
is that it returns one and all products returns multiples.
And if you are ever returning one item from a query,
it must be query based on a unique field.
And the only unique field we have on product is id.
Everything else could be duplicated.
So here we can say, give me all products where,
this is how you do filtering in Keystone.
Most GraphQL clients
will have the very similar filtering though.
I've used maybe six or seven of them.
And they're all very similar to this.
So we say where, see, look at this, (purrs)
look at every possible input in here and not just id.
So we could say name
contains and there's name_contains, and name_contains_i,
the is for insensitive.
So we'll say where the name contains insensitive Yeti.
And then from that, give me all of the names
and the prices of the product that it finds.
There we go.
All products, look at it, brings us back three things.
Now, sometimes I find myself needing to find one item
based on something that is not unique,
and if that's the case,
I usually just grab the first item
that comes back in that case.
But let's back this up.
We don't necessarily need that right now.
We'll hit that when we get into search.
I thought I would just show you
while we're in the headspace.
So give me a product where the ID is this,
and then we query everything that we want.
So we should be able to take that query and go in here.
And we'll say, let's say const, what is it?
Data, loading, error is equal to useQuery.
And we actually got to write the query.
So go up here,
we'll say const SINGLE_ITEM_QUERY is equal to gql.
Now we're gonna have to back,
we're gonna have to import
a bunch of stuff in just a second.
And then we'll paste our query in there.
Now, we need to import gql, that's from GraphQL tag.
We need to import useQuery.
Okay, and then that's just underlined,
'cause we don't have a prop types for it.
That's totally fine, same with this one.
All right, then we can go back to our useQuery
and pass it our SINGLE_ITEM_QUERY.
And we should be able to console.log
data, loading, and error.
One little tip I like to use in this case
is if you want to know what the values are,
you can wrap it in curly brackets.
So if we go to here and go to our console,
you'll see we get like an object, false and undefined.
If you don't know what these are,
you can wrap them in curly brackets,
and what that does is it logs it as an object
where there's property names
that associate with the variables.
And then we get this nice little object here
where you say data, error, and loading.
And I love that little debugging tip,
because it's easy to see what things are called.
So in our case, if we refresh the page,
we immediately get the data.
No error and loading is false.
But if we were to go back to the homepage
and click on another one, like these Air Max 270's,
you'll see that you might get loading true first,
and then you'll get the data on the second re-render.
And the reason that's happening
is because it's fetching it from the browser.
Whereas if I were just to refresh this page,
we only get it once.
And the reason behind that is because the first render
is actually happening on the server,
so there is no loading state, which is really nice.
You will also sometimes get that if you click on here
and you click onto a product you haven't been to,
you see, I only got one.
And the reason is that the first load did happen on,
you can see it's right here.
Here we go, loading true.
You can see the first render
actually happened on the server.
The server is our terminal here.
And the second render happened on the client side.
That's a bit of a delicate, not delicate,
but you need to know that some of the renders happen
on the server and some of them happen on the client.
All right, so now that we have that,
look at it, we've got our object,
we've got our data, we've got our product,
and then we get everything that we want in there.
What I wanna do now is let's actually move this,
all of this to its own component.
And the reason behind that
is because this is not very flexible right now.
We just made a single product component,
but it's at a page level, right?
So what we could do is we can make
a single product component
that we could use it wherever we want.
As long as we pass an ID, it will do the querying for us.
So we'll go to our components folder here
and make a new file,
and we'll call it capital S, SingleProduct.js.
And let's move over all of this into SingleProduct.
And then let's also move that over.
So export default function SingleProduct,
that takes in an id of which product you want to query.
And then in here, we'll use that query.
And then we'll return "Single Product."
I'm gonna go back to this one and get rid of that.
And then here, we can simply just return
our single product component where the is
is going to be equal to the query.id.
All right, so I know we did a lot there.
We made a function called SingleProduct.
Oh, this should be called SingleProductPage instead,
that takes in the query, which comes from the browser,
then from that, we return our single product component
which we need to import now.
Okay, that was important there.
And then you pass in the id,
then we'll go into single product here and we can say,
if loading, then return paragraph loading dot, dot, dot,
if error, then return, we have our error,
what was that called?
Error message component.
What did we call that?
I know, DisplayError, okay.
There we go, and then you pass it, your error,
and then otherwise, if we do have data,
so we can return a div where there's like,
let's do an h2 tag with the
data.product.name.
Let's try that.
Cannot access property name, data.product is undefined.
Oh, okay, maybe it is, is it a capital P?
There we go.
So now what we did is we just created
a single product component that all it needs is an ID
and it will be able to display it wherever we want.
So that's pretty cool because what you can do
is you can take the single product component and we could,
let's put it, let's go into our page component.
You don't have to do this,
but let me just show you really quickly.
If you go into your page component,
and let's just go to the footer here.
If I were to want to put a single product
into the component and pass it an id
of, I don't know, let's go find a product.
The Nike VaporMax.
So the ID of this product,
we'll just pass it in right there,
you can import it,
and watch this.
It's showing me Yeti Hondo, why? (laughs)
Did we hard-code the ID?
I think we did, oh, Wes, Wes, Wes.
Okay, so obviously, we hard-coded the ID
of the product to be this.
We need to make that dynamic.
So what we'll do here is we'll modify this,
we'll just call it SINGLE_ITEM_QUERY
or SINGLE_PRODUCT_QUERY.
You pass in id that has a type of ID and is required.
And then in here, we can just pass the id variable.
So that's the first part of it.
And then when we run this query, so here we go, useQuery,
and make this a little bigger
so we can see it all in one line,
you can pass a second argument to useQuery,
which is the variable.
We wanna say the variable id
is going to be equal to whatever ID
got passed in as a prop to this component.
So it's just id as well.
Now, give that a save.
It's going to just shorten it to just id.
And now, whatever ID gets passed in
will be sent to the query, here we go.
Now, whatever product we're on, see KITH Hoodie,
and then Nike VaporMax shows up in the footer, why?
Because we can literally
put this component anywhere we want,
and as long as we pass it an ID of the product,
it will know how and where to get the data from
as well as how to display that actual data.
And that's really cool.
I was making these flexible components that are not so rigid
that they need like a parent data
or they only can be viewed on a specific page,
but you can put them wherever you want.
So obviously, we don't wanna do that in the footer,
so I'll bring that out there.
But now we have our single product.
Okay, so that's that.
Let's do a little bit more styling
so this will show up a little bit neater.
So let's first make this product variable
a little bit shorter, so we'll say const Product,
that's equal to, it's kinda weird
that there's a capital P on it,
but that's just how it comes back from the GraphQL API.
So there's not a whole lot,
well, there is something we could do, I could show you.
If you want it to rename something in your GraphQL query,
you could rename it like items.
And then when they come back, it's gonna be data.items
instead of whatever comes back from the API.
I very rarely need to use that,
just because I just use whatever comes back from the API.
But there's rare cases where if you're trying, not Googling,
if you're querying two different products
with a single item query,
then they both can't be named product.
So what you have to do
is you have to rename them in the query.
But I'm just gonna call it Product here.
I'll say that const Product is equal to data.
And you could also rename them
in the de-structuring like that as well.
Again, I'm not gonna confuse you,
just gonna put a capital on it.
And then we say Product.name.
Let's wrap that in a div with a class of details.
And then below it, we'll do the Product.description.
We do need to go back up here
and modify our query a little bit
because we need the name, the price,
the description, the id, we need the photo.
And inside of that, we need the linked image and the public,
lowercase publicUrlTransformed.
Doesn't look like the description is showing up.
Maybe that one just doesn't have a description.
Let's go to the Yeti Hondo.
No, all right, let's debug that real quick.
We'll go and try to log out the product here.
There we go, product descriptions right there,
did I spell it wrong?
I did, yeah, there's your problem.
Above it, we'll do an image tag.
The source is equal
to the Product.photo.image.publicUrlTransformed.
And then the alt is equal to the Product.name.
You could also take the alt
from the image as well if you wanted,
because we have another one there, so we could do that,
Product.photo.image.alt.
Oh, look at this, so we've got a bit of an error here.
Cannot query field alt on type
CloudinaryImage field, location.
Oh, I think the alt goes up here.
Is that why?
And then here, it's just photo.alt.
No, see, our error component is kicking in there.
It didn't that first time because of hot reloading,
but that won't happen in production.
So that is good.
Why did that not work?
Let's go back to this here.
Let me say our photo.
Oh, altText, come on now, altText.
That's why.
There we go, and hover over top of it.
There we go.
That's looking good.
So we have our image, we've got our details
with our name and our description.
One other thing and this is something
we haven't covered yet is, what about the title tag?
So far, the title tag, they're just saying random stuff
like this page could not be defined.
So if you wanna be able to define the title tag
in your Next.js application, it's pretty simple.
What you do is anywhere you want
to modify items that are in the head,
we simply just embed a capital H Head tag,
and then import that from,
oh, it looks like it's not gonna auto import.
So we'll have to go back up to the top here.
Say import capital H Head from next/head.
And what we'll do there is anything
that gets stuck in here will be injected
into the head of the document.
There is another, if you're not using Next.js,
in my Gatsby tutorial, we use something called helmet.
It works the exact same way.
So in here, we're just gonna call it Sick Fits |,
and we'll put the Product.name in there.
And then you see that the title tag of the tab
is changed when you go to an item.
So we'll have to go through and update those
on every single page,
just so that they all have the correct SEO.
But that's the first time we've used that there.
And we also need a little bit of styling
to get this to look nicely.
We'll write that one together.
Let's go up here, we'll say const ProductStyles
is equal to styled.div.
We will import styled from styled-components.
And we'll just say, background red,
and then take that ProductStyles
and replace it with that wrapping div we have here.
This Head tag can go anywhere you want, by the way.
And that's kind of the cool thing is that,
if you can use it wherever you have your data,
and it isn't like you would have to query
this single product at a page level and pass it down,
you can just pop it in the product where you have it.
Okay, so that looks like it's working.
We'll go back up here and start writing some CSS.
You wanna say display grid.
grid-auto-columns is 1fr,
and grid-auto-flow is column.
That means it will add the items
to the right-hand side in columns,
rather than the default of grid, which is rows.
We'll give it a min-height of 800px,
a max-width of our variable maxWidth.
Then we got to grab this image here.
Let's say width is 100%.
And it's looking better.
Also say height is 100%.
And then we do this.
Let's see, I love doing this with,
that looks like a kid's shoe.
What happened here is depending on how much room we have,
it's obviously gonna get smushed.
And we can use something in CSS called object-fit,
and there is something called contain,
and that will just obviously contain it.
There's also cover, which it will stretch it to fit,
which is not what we want.
We want contain to show,
and that way you don't have to figure out,
okay, is it a wide and short image
or is it a a tall and skinny image?
Contain will just figure it all out for you.
Let's also put this text here in the middle.
So justify-content center, maybe?
No, align-content.
No, it's vertical.
So vertical is items, align-items center.
There we go.
We'll probably put a little bit of gap on there.
I should probably use rems for that.
Actually, you know what?
It should be top.
Take that,
take the height off of there.
I'm not sure why I had that.
That's probably something to do with SEO,
same with this min-height.
Yeah, we don't need those.
Maybe we'll come back when we make sure
that it's all mobile-friendly and add those back in,
but I'm not sure why I had that initially.
Okay, that is looking good.
All right, that is looking good.
That's obviously querying and displaying a single item
on a single page with routing and SEO and all of that.
Let's get into the next one where we update the products.